[MUSIC]
We have an algorithm for set cover and
we have see that it outputs a collection
of sets whose expected causes at most OPT.
Now we need to see whether or
not it is a set cover.
Is it correct?
Is the output a cover?
Maybe, maybe not.
It depends on our random choices.
So let us look at this
property more closely.
Let us analyze in particular
the number of elements covered.
The number of elements covered by the sets
that are chosen and placed in the output,
can be written as the sum over every
element of the indicated function,
which is 1 if element e is covered,
and 0 if not.
This is a random quantity.
So again,
we are going to analyze it in expectation.
What is this sum on average?
Compute the expectation of the sum.
Expectation of the sum.
What do you do when you see
an expectation of a sum?
You invert, summation and expectation.
Sum of the expectation of
an indicated function.
What do you do when you have
the expectation of an indicated function?
Replace it by a probability.
So what do you get?
By the same reasoning as what
we saw earlier, the expected
number of elements covered is,
the sum over every element
of the probability that element e is
covered by the output collection of sets.
So, now to analyze this,
we focus on one particular term.
Focus on one particular element e.
What is the probability that e is covered
by the output collection of sets?
This is the more technical part
of this chapter I have to say.
So hang on.
When is element e covered?
It's covered if there is a set in
the output that covers element e.
Such as e belongs to S.
The probability that e is covered equals
the probability that there exists
S in the output containing e.
And so, what is this?
The probability that there
exists something is 1 minus
the probability that it does not exist.
That is,
the probability that none of the sets
containing e are chosen in the output.
So the probability that there
exists an s in the output
containing e is 1- the probability
that for every set containing e,
S is not chosen, is not part of
the output collection of sets.
So, now we need to
analyze this probability.
We need to upperbound the probability
that for every set S containing e,
S is not part of the output
collection of sets.
So far elementary reasoning.
Now we're going to use independence.
We get to use a property that
only holds when you have
an independent collection of events.
If you have two independent events A and
B, then
the probability that both of them occur is
equal to the product of the probabilities.
If they are not independent,
this probability of A and
B could be less, could be more.
Depends on whether they're correlated,
whether they're anti-correlated.
But if A and B are independent,
then this probability is exactly
the product of the single probabilities.
So, what does the algorithm do?
The algorithm for every S, puts S in
the output with probability x sub S.
And these probabilities are independent,
independent for every S.
They're independent, so
the probability that all of these events
occur simultaneously,
that every S containing e is discarded,
is the product, is equal to
the product of the probabilities.
So it's equal to the product
over every set containing e,
of the probability of that
set is not put in the output.
This thing the key thing
here is independence.
And so, now we have to look at the
probability that S is not in the output.
That probability we know is 1- x
sub s by the choice of algorithm.
Now we just put everything together and
we get, the probability
that element e is covered
is 1 minus the product
over every set containing
e of 1 minus x sub S.
This gives us an expression for
the probability that e is covered
by the output collection of sets.
So, now we have to go back and
see how we incorporate that
into the analysis of the number
elements covered by the algorithm.
Now let's see.
We need to do a little bit more
work on this product of 1- x sub s.
The first thing we will do is x
is the expectation of log of x.
That's an identity.
ln of (XY) = log of X + ln Y.
That's almost the definition
of a logarithm.
Apply this to this product.
This expression is the exponent
of a log of this expression.
It's a product, so
we can replace it by a sum.
Exchange product and
logarithm after changing it in a sum.
This is the exponential of sum over
every set containing element e
are the natural logarithm of 1- x s.
This is the beginning of
an algebraic calculation.
The next thing we will use is the log
of 1- x sub s can be replaced,
simplified, replaced by -x sub s.
It is well known that log
of 1- x is at most -x.
And so we do this and what do we get?
We get that this exponential
with that expression there
is at most e to the minus the sum over
every s containing the element of x sub s.
Now we look at this.
The sum over every e containing S of
x sub s, and what do we recognize?
We recognize a constraint
of our linear program.
We have the constraint that for every
element e, if we look at the sum of x sub
s, over all sets S containing
e that sum must be at least 1.
Apply this and we deduce
the exponential of minus that sum
is at most the exponential of -1.
So what does this tell us?
It tells us that the probability that an
element e is covered is at least 1- 1/e.
Therefore, the average number of elements
covered by the output collection of sets
is in expectation at least the total
number of elements times 1- 1/e.
And what is 1-1/e?
It's approximately 63%,
a little bit more than 63%, 63.2%.
And so what have we proved at this point?
We have proved that we've
randomized rounding.
We have obtained a collection of sets
whose cost is in expectation at most OPT.
And that cover, how many of the elements?
On average, at least 63% of the elements.
So, we do not have a set cover.
We do not yet have a set cover,
but we are getting closer.
It only remains to modify the algorithm
a little bit to turn it into a correct
set cover algorithm.